here with Aaron Davis also known by kuma
B's come over yes so right now we're
trying
well minimus lets you hold your own keys
for the etherium we're trying to
digitize our infrastructure right now
you do all your reads about the
blockchain state from centralized
infrastructure but we want it to be a
proper likely
now that's non-trivial because we can't
access the main network we don't have
the tcp/udp we need in the browser to do
that so we have to do this much larger
engineering project which involves
creating a second Network black clients
and that also led us to realize that
there's going to be orders of magnitude
more like clients than full nodes and so
we need to really redesign how like
clients work and how they share data and
how they find each other so they can
share the data they have the idea so
here we've got a little data
visualization of a of a test net in real
world networking conditions so let's
take a look right now it starts as a
little hairball which is maybe not that
interesting but that's good that means
loss of connectivity you can see there's
one part where the connectivity is not
great but and those are the black bolts
the leg Spears right alright so you see
detached nodes right calm down brother
yeah sorry so WebRTC just in any
networking case and sometimes you know
gonna be able to reach notes and I don't
know why these ones are unreachable but
in general you have really good
connectivity here and you have great
connectivity here right so what's
interesting is that these nodes are
actually reporting to you on your
telemetry server and they're reporting
that they have zero connections right
let's play the rest of this one yes and
so our telemetry server is you know
running in a cloud in much easier access
then maybe these other peers yeah which
are running on people's laptops so what
I'm especially interested right now is
is the DHT and some performance
characteristics of the DHT especially
running on top
we're TC and running in the browser
mm-hmm so I have some other views here
we can look at it and based on their
like X or position their ie yeah let's
have a look at that so this is putting
them into circle here the lines are
showing again their connectivity mm-hm
so we can also look at something like
the DHT routing table yeah which is
going to look very similar because
they're connected to their peers in the
routing table right so this is showing
us the shape of the network according to
like basically the kunia distance
essentially the Khedive Miyake space and
these are this this these lines are
actually showing us the membership right
in routing table so what peers hold
other peers in their routing tables
that's right the colors right now are
set to the platform's the green ones are
running on chromium right now orange
ones are on Firefox I didn't see ie Amex
browser in there earlier okay yeah
so now we can also visualize a DHT query
so earlier I did a find providers great
so it's what for the network and tries
to find people that have provide content
yeah so actually actually I'm seeing
this like little these tabs at the top
are you able to change colors based on
like different characteristics is that
implemented yet yes so this is something
I I built in the process of doing this
data visualization it's a it's a like a
modular graph visualizer so you can add
different modules that effect how you do
the layout how you do the topology and
how you do the color right so right now
we're looking at platform we search -
like uptime as a multiple or let's see
so in this experiment I have a max
uptime of two hours and I just have the
node restart and so you see the ones
that are red or have been up to closer
to two hours and the bright green ones
are younger so this is actually showing
us that the DHD in a way is like is
showing us churn right and the DHT the
want the nose that have stayed that a
greener are have been on the DHT for
less time which means that they might
have it that might not be so stable that
might not be providing that stability to
the DHD that is you know a desirable
property in a tasty and so then the next
thing I'd really like to show is the DHT
query I already did one earlier
so I'll just display that now
right so now I changed the the topology
and the color to be based on the DHT
query that I did earlier hello what what
do the colours mean oh yeah so over here
it's hard to see is the pink one this is
the initiator of the request but in all
the other the yellow note all the let's
get closer
yeah all the yellow notes are notes that
were recommended at some point but we
didn't bother dialling them the are ones
that recommended that were recommended
to us we did dial and then the green
ones were results we have no interaction
that's very cool
that's super cool all right so what do
we see here so Kenny's are you able to
see the amount of hops that this query
took yes right all Network requests in
every capacity come from the big one yep
but here when you see it bounce that's
because
nice nice so from this this happy are
actually able to instruct this
particular node to launch a query to the
network and we can also run them in
batch so you can get more wider
statistics Stephanie a great a great
platform agreed in our experiment to
actually run experiments on the network
itself right so as you are able to
visualize the network and you are able
to instruct particular peers to run a
particular operation that and you're
able to like inspect how that operation
actually unraveled in the network that
is pretty awesome visualization because
it appeared to be our networking is very
hard to understand so having visuals
like this make the whole thing a lot
more it's very different it's wobbly
things don't right right so what
actually I'm wondering like for meta
mask itself and for the projects you
know because you said that you are
building these visuals and this
technology to actually gain insight into
how the foundation is works of the
networking so how why did you actually
pick Libby to be itself as a networking
stack to build upon so what what are the
primary reasons is it was a transport
agnostic
the uniqueness for the browser right
yeah yeah and so the way that the
etherium network was selected they they
hard-coded things to the protocols and
those protocols weren't available to us
and so we got promised yeah that mean
are much harder of course yeah and then
being able to just you know take the
same code that can run in TCP UDP land
and be able to run it in the browser
context of course with transport
transparency you're able to use WebRTC
with the same business logic such that
it can seamlessly switch to TCP UDP in
the future if you know browsers what
implemented which there are some efforts
to go in that direction like for example
the Deep Web yeah so have you been
working with them or I haven't been
running it yet because I don't expect to
have it available but what I'm looking
forward to doing is getting good
statistics from here running on WebRTC
and then run it on loopy web and then
show an order of magnitude of lifti web
it's really important
even if you would totally
socome obvious I think this demo was
amazing this kind of tooling is exactly
what we need for to be able to
understand what's going on and
peer-to-peer networks we particularly
I'm from the Lippe to be team and we
have to evolve a lot to get to a place
like this we're probably going to
continue working with Kamali's to like
get some of his learnings and get kind
of some of his insights and to how to
build these tools so that we can make
them available to the entire Lippe to
Bierko system and I just want to say do
you have anything else that you want to
tell the world yeah we're hiring you're
building on these tools yeah yeah so you
want to work for remote work on stuff in
the browser thanks a lot man take a see
ya